Solana Dev 101 - Making a Solana Discord Bot with Webhooks

Tidelaw
Tidelaw
3 min read
September 28, 2023
Introduction
Interested in creating a Discord Sales Bot for an NFT collection? This blog post will guide you through setting up a Discord Sales Bot using Helius Webhooks.

Discord Sales Bot Notification
Discord Sales Bot Notification

Setting up the Discord Webhook
To set up the sales bot on the server, navigate to the Server Settings. Remember, you'll need admin permissions to do this.

Discord Server Settings

Select Integrations from the menu:

Discord integrations

Click New Webhook and adjust the settings as you see fit:

new webhook

Make sure to copy the Webhook URL, as it will be needed when we set up the Helius Webhook.

Setting up the Helius Webhook
Head to the Helius Dashboard and select the webhook section on the left. Once there, you can add a new webhook. Ensure you keep the network and webhook type the same as shown in the image, which should be Mainnet and Discord, respectively. 

We add "Discord" as the Webhook type because it will format the transaction message according to the transaction and relay it directly to Discord without requiring you to write any code. You can choose which types of transactions you want to include. In our case, select NFT_SALES, as we'll only allow NFT sales to be sent.

The webhook URL will be the URL you previously copied from Discord. Keep this tab open, as we'll need to add the appropriate addresses into the Account Address field that the webhook will monitor.

Configuration for Webhook
Configuration for Webhook

Adding Account Address
We’ll start from an NFT, keep in mind some NFT collections may have been created from a different standard, which would change these steps. Starting from a Solscan link pointing to an NFT(example below):

NFT metadata example

Select the Metadata section, and scroll until you see the Creators property. From the array, select the address with a share value of 100. You may see one or more creators, but usually, only one creator will have a share value of 100. Copy this address and return it to the Helius Dashboard. In this case, the address is:

HAryckvjyViFQEmhmMoCtqqBMJnpXEYViamyDhZUJfnG

Copy and paste it into the dashboard.

Account Address for Webhook
Account Address for Webhook


Once you hit confirm, you're done! When an NFT is sold from the collection, you should receive a webhook message like this:

Discord Sales Bot Notification
Discord Sales Bot Notification

Conclusion
In this tutorial, we learned how to set up a Discord Sales Bot using Helius Webhooks. With this bot, you can easily stay updated with live NFT sales of your favorite collection. Discord's webhook feature removes the need for writing custom bot code, making it easier for everyone to get started. If you wish to build a Telegram Sales bot, you can refer to this tutorial. We hope you find it useful! If you have any questions or feedback, please don't hesitate to visit Discord.

Thank you for reading!

Resources
Helius Discord
Twitter Thread
What are Webhooks
Table of Contents
Introduction
Setting up the Discord Webhook
Setting up the Helius Webhook
Adding Account Address
Conclusion
Resources
Related Articles
Create a Solana Telegram Bot in Less Than 100 Lines of Code
Create a Solana Telegram Bot in Less Than 100 Lines of Code
This guide demonstrates how to create a customizable Telegram bot that tracks real-time events using Helius webhooks and Cloudflare Workers.

how to set up a solana telegram bot
How to set up a Solana Telegram bot
Learn how to set up a Telegram bot that sends updates relating to on-chain activities with Helius webhooks.

How to build a Solana Portfolio Viewer with Next.js and Helius's DAS API
How to build a Solana Portfolio Viewer with Next.js and Helius's DAS API
Learn how to integrate the DAS API into a front-end application to build a portfolio viewer for showcasing both NFTs and SPL tokens.

Subscribe to Helius
Stay up-to-date with the latest in Solana development and receive updates when we post


Helius Logo
SOC
Product
RPC Nodes
LaserStream
gRPC
Webhooks & WebSockets
NFT APIs
Token APIs
Transaction APIs
ZK Compression
Validator
Our Validator
Validator-as-a-Service
Stake with Us
How to Buy hSOL
Resources
Blog
Docs
Status
Pricing
Built with Helius
Startup Launchpad
